everyone Laszlo Montgomery here back
again so soon
wow this is just like the old days ain't
it thanks for returning after that long
verbose intro we now enter the fabulous
5th and 6th centuries BCE and the Age of
philosophy is flourishing for the first
time in human history and not just in
China Greece Persia India and on the
eastern shores of the Mediterranean all
over two years after Confucius leaves
his earthly form Pericles will be born
in Greece and I still remember one of my
early inspirations one of my history
teachers from way back when Melvin
staight pounding that history of the
Golden Age of Pericles and 5th century
Greece into my memory well I didn't know
it back in middle school but over in
China they were having their own Huang
Jing shared I humankind after advancing
from our most primitive stages of
development to where things were in the
seven hundred six hundred and five
hundred species for the first time and
again I want to emphasize and
re-emphasize simultaneously in all these
centers of human civilization they all
began to argue and debate these most
fundamental of philosophical questions
remember from last episode I mentioned
the state of Qi in Shandong Province
being the first place in China where the
rulers began to patronize scholars and
find uses for them thanks to Guanzhong
stewardship of the Qi State a century
prior she was now considered the Ivy
League so to speak of higher learning in
China thinkers and teachers from all
parts of Jo Dynasty China flocked to Qi
where all the intellectual action was
and Confucius was just one of the many
scholars and teachers who made the
pilgrimage to Qi Qi State was located
next door to where Confucius made his
bed every night in Lille in Chinese
Confucius is known as console
most of you have noticed all these zoos
coming as a suffix at the end of a lot
of names and eponymous philosophical
works in Chinese that's called a Troodon
Chung like a like an honorific or
respectful term added to your surname
this means master since Confucius's name
was concho surname Cohn the Troodon
Chung of was added to his surname Cohn
and we know him forever Morris Cohen
master Cohn that's all there is there
with that so Munzer master mung
shinza Master Shin Switzer the guy who
wrote the art of war Sun Tzu where I
live
you know so close to Hollywood master
swoon let's talk about the legend of
Konza probably none of this is
historically accurate but hey what the
hey I'm sure not a single one of you
will be surprised that for Confucius and
as it is with almost but not quite
everybody who came before somach in all
we have four primary sources is what the
record of the grand historian has
revealed and cemaat Chen had to pretty
much go with whatever he could glean
from what master combs disciples said
monks and the toilet Ron that Confucius
lived has never been disputed
he ain't no loud sir but the details are
all in line with what you'd expect from
this historical age it makes fur
scintillating reading but how much of it
is factual if any no one could know for
sure he was born in the year of the dog
was a tall strange-looking man his
father was many years older than his
mother and passed away when Jung Kong
chill was only three not coming from
money serious or otherwise it was an
impoverished upbringing and like many of
the mothers of the sages Madame calm
though not much as mentioned about her
was a model of sacrifice and propriety
Confucius traced his ancestry back to
shank Cho in song State Eastern her nun
in a Ted of Western Shandong
as I said he was named Kong Chow three
generations before the birth of Kong's
and 551 BCE his family had migrated
north to lose state southern Shandong
near the city of Chu fool
that's why Chu foo is so important
Confucius's birthplace that's the
location of the main Confucian temple
Duke I of Lu
a year after Confucius is passing
ordered the Kong Miao the temple of
Confucius to be built there still there
today 2500 years later a major tourist
attraction in China their Confucian
temples everywhere in China and around
the world but the one in Chu fool is the
main one the Saint Peter's so to speak
well there's not a lot of rice in this
gruel so we can skip ahead and say that
cones
married at 19 divorced at 23 and
remained single for the rest of his days
and when his upstanding and virtuous
mother passed away
Confucius dutifully mourned her for
three years a number purposely chosen to
allow one to reflect during this period
of mourning on their own first three
years of life when they depended on
their parents for their very life and
survival time to give the years back as
a sign of mourning and filial piety at
age 22 which would have been north or
south of 520 BCE
Confucius began his teaching career and
hung a shingle outside his residence he
had no trouble attracting students and
just as confucius began his career over
and present-day Bihar State in India the
Buddha had only just recently attained
enlightenment at the school run by
Kwanza which gained a great amount of
repute in and around that part of Joe
China there were three subjects taught
history poetry and rules of propriety
Confucius said quote a man's character
was formed by the book of ODEs developed
by the rites and perfected by music and
quote so successful was Confucius as a
teacher he became the first of his
profession to amass
as many students as he did over 3,000
had said the standard curriculum that
developed became known as the six arts
the lioe
these were ritual music archery chariot
riding calligraphy and math that
traditional Chinese respect for
knowledge and education and for those
who were educated began here Confucius
till his dying day promoted it and he
thought the best thing anyone can do was
to find a good teacher and imitate that
teacher in their words and actions one
of his students introduced master kong
to someone at the joke dynasty court and
so began Combs's career in the little
government based conveniently and Shifu
rather than the Duke of Liu being in
charge the capital at this time was
controlled by a cabal of three corrupt
and self-serving noble families may
recall the three Huang families
Confucius pined for a day when the Duke
of lose power can be restored that Lu
was controlled for the benefit of three
corrupt and morally bankrupt families
went against everything Confucius called
for in his ideology later on Confucius
will make the mistake of meddling in
these heated rivalries between the three
one families of Liu and he ended up on
the wrong side of Ike how ji-sun ji-sun
shirt of the Qi clan different from the
Gees of the Jo dynasty and for meddling
in politics and not keeping his mouth
shut
Confucius would around 496 BCE have to
leave town but initially when he began
his stint in the Lu government and 501
BCE Confucius was lauded for his
performance
winning accolades for his honesty and
integrity and by 498 Duke ding of Liu
Liu tinkle
he made Confucius acting superintendent
of public works again the record states
that he did many great things during his
brief tenure he moved on to the post of
minister of crime the most notable thing
I read about
his brief stint in this post was that
Confucius sentenced a man to die once I
thought this was pretty far out
especially when you examined this
through a 21st century lens Confucius
said he pronounced the man guilty
because quote he was capable of
gathering about him large crowds of men
that his arguments could easily appeal
to the mob and make perversity
respectable and that his sophistry was
sufficiently recalcitrant to take a
stand against the accepted judgments of
write and quote again the details of
Combs's career and government are the
stuff of legends that were written about
him centuries after his passing there
are historians who will dispute all of
this once on an official visit to the
capital law young this was in 518 BCE
while Confucius was still in the employ
of the Duke of Liu he sought out an
appointment with no less a personage
than Louds himself I will discuss loud
sir in detail in another episode but
this legendary meeting of the two
greatest philosophers of ancient China
was well documented in the record of the
grand historian Lao Tzu by 518 BCE had
already established quite a name and
reputation throughout the land and after
meeting with the old master Confucius
was quite moved when he came face to
face with the Great Lawn zone and asked
his advice on certain matters of
ceremony and ritual loud sir
famously and cryptically replied quote
what you are studying and teaching now
is all from ancient men who died a long
time ago and even their bones have
rotted away those written words are in
fact only their footprints neither their
shoes nor their feet let alone what was
in their minds don't regard their words
as some sort of unbreakable Dogma
secondly as a man of virtue and
knowledge you could have your own cart
and live a luxurious life if the time
does not permit it will be perfectly
okay as long as you could manage to
survive thirdly once I was told of an
old saying a good merchant does not
show his goods and a man of utmost
virtue is always simple it will do you
good if you cut off your pride get rid
of your greed reduce your haughtiness
throw away some of your ambitions
it will serve your family better and it
will serve your steak better if you are
not too stubborn
no matter whenever wherever and whatever
that is all I have to say to you and
quote well
this puzzled Confucius at first but this
brief moment in time that he was
fortunate to spend with Lao Tzu
transformed Confucius as he reflected
more and more on these words and they're
vague meaning it's written in this shirt
Qi that he had said quote birds can fly
but will fall at the hunter zero fish
can swim but will be hooked by the
fishermen beasts can run but will drop
into people's nets and traps there was
only one thing that is out of man's
reach that's the legendary dragon a
dragon can fly into the sky ride on
clouds dive into the ocean a dragon is
powerful yet so intangible to us
Lao Tzu is a dragon and I'll never
understand him and quote Lanza was much
older than Confucius but their lives did
have some overlap and if you read the
stories or grew up with them their paths
crossed a couple of times
Confucius held Lauda in the highest
esteem remember in the old masters
lifetime nobody was talking about Taoism
or pointing out loud as the founder of
some school of thought that all came
later and will review all of that when
we get to the Taoism part of this series
these vignettes of these legendary
meetings between Louds and Konza make
for great reading but how the old master
impacted master Kong's thought now I
can't say for sure but that was their
most famous encounter after he returned
to loo Confucius was forlorn to see how
far his home-state had fallen the gory
details of the demise of the state of Lu
are chronicled in the twin show our
spring and autumn annals again
supposedly written by Confucius he it
simply concluded that this degradation
of the state and then society at large
lose the kind of thing that happened in
the absence of a ruler who lacked these
necessary virtues Confucius said time
and again place a ruler on the throne
who is virtuous benevolent wise and
reverent then humane miss an e
righteousness would be this rulers
underlying qualities and the rulers
skill for stewardship of the state and
their ethical example would serve as the
model for everyone to follow and the
rulers goodness would inspire others to
follow his example and never would they
be required to rely on using for sir
meeting up punishments to Confucius it
was essential that a ruler must be
someone who emulated y'all and chuan in
their simplicity of the royal court and
the number of adornments they might
display around the palace or where on
their person wealth would be equitably
distributed among the populace Confucius
was anti-war and even anti Foreign
Relations he said be self-sufficient for
all your needs and then there will never
be any need to engage in potential
conflicts with those beyond China's
borders well anyway after things got too
hot in lieu for Confucius he and a bunch
of his disciples packed up and left
Shifu under pressure from the corrupt
ruling Nobles cones have decided to
wander the lands and seek out this
leader who had those basic qualities and
who would listen to what he had to say
find merit in his words and then
presumably hire him as an official
advisor of sorts to help the ruler
implement this ideology Confucius
wouldn't return to Lu until 484 BCE as I
mentioned there were no shortage of
people like Homs
walking the streets of China's capitals
he was just one of many learned men who
went from state to state offering their
consulting services Hmong shinza and
many of the great warring States
philosophers
they did the same thing these teachers
or wise masters all had their own ideas
about how everything in society should
be organized administered and how the
ruler should act in order to maintain
peace and harmony in their lands and
lead his people by example and the thing
for rulers to do back then was to invite
these wandering philosophers to their
respective states you know to have these
discussions about from a macro
perspective at least how best to run
their kingdom for more than a decade
Confucius was one of these wandering
scholar teachers the actual number of
years he was outside lu and teaching and
all these other places is disputed
he went from city to city searching for
his holy grail a virtuous ruler who he
could coach and advise a few rulers he
visited kicked his tires and tried a
mouth the Duke of Wei and others in Tai
Chun and song states he also went to Chu
neither these Dukes are Prince's weren't
interested or Confucius found them not
worth his time why because they were all
lost causes who lacked all the most
basic virtues and qualities that were
required of a sage ruler when Confucius
as travels took him to Qi state the
ruler at that time would have been
cheating gone duke jing a particular
snippet from his time with duke jing
concerned this other well-known story
about how one day the duke asked the
great sage what makes a good government
and that master cone famously answered
him this way quote there is good
government when the prince is the prince
the minister is the minister when the
father is the father and the son is the
son end quote
I think this one usually makes the
Confucian quotes top 10 when everyone
knows their place and acts accordingly
you can count on good and stable
government well the life of the knight
tenant philosopher was a hard one plenty
of times konzern is entourage of
disciples face these life-and-death
situation
and I'm sure the transport back in the
early five hundreds BCE wasn't that
great either as an adviser to chi-ching
bone combs Oh wasn't being taken
seriously and like with everyone else he
found this ruler of Qi lacking in virtue
Duke I of Lu who reigned for 94 to 467
BCE brought Confucius back home in 483
or so says the Swan
believe it or not there was the sort of
rivalry between Lu and she rulers of
both rival States tried to keep the
famous Confucius and bear camp even
though they didn't heed his advice
neech would try and entice combs ax to
come to their capital but master Kong
returned to Lu for good and it was there
with Confucius pushing 70 years old he
finished off his days teaching and being
accorded all the reverence and respect
that many a great teacher has enjoyed
over the millennia his last years were
spent working on the book of songs also
called the book of ODEs the surging he
also devoted a great deal of time on the
Shang Shu the book of documents as well
as the twin show the spring and autumn
annals from which we get the name of
that half of the Eastern Jo the twin sho
chronicles the years of loose state from
720 to 241 BCE Confucius also spent his
final years trying to figure out the e
Jing in the next episode we'll hear
Combs's thoughts on this classic of
changes that he began to study it so
late in life was one of Master Cole's
dying regrets what he wrote about the e
Jing and some rather profound
consequences again that's for next
episode combs of didn't know it back
then that he'd end up his famous and
long-lasting as he ended up being his
was the longest social and political
philosophy in history you could argue I
suppose he might have felt thankful
having achieved in his own time some
degree of success as a teacher of
students who had risen far in the
government but as far as his greatest
goal of finding that one
virtuous ruler who we could latch on to
and guide Confucius never got to achieve
that in fact in some places Konza went
to he was downright disparaged and
physically mistreated when he passed in
479 BCE he was given quite a send-off by
his disciples who were said to number
something like 77 some were more famous
than others his grandsons was maybe the
most famous Confucius had a son but I
guess the only achievement the son had
was Cyrene --ss his disciples mourned
him for three years a period of time
only reserved for one's parents passing
and at the time of his death
combs awaz just one of many teachers and
philosophers in China but like Elvis and
James Dean Confucius ended up much
bigger in death than in life what
followed in the wake of Confucius is
life was an explosion in Chinese
philosophy and philosophers by Combs's
time this became the preferred career
for many an aspiring scholar more young
for a while became their Silicon Valley
of philosophers Monza was one of the
many who made the trip there soon after
the great sages passing Chinese history
entered the warring States period a time
of great misery but also an extremely
fertile period for philosophy the
hundred schools of thought argued
everything and many books were written
well paper wasn't invented yet but
strips of bamboo was what they used in a
whole kaleidoscope of philosophical
writings burst onto the scene although
Confucius enjoyed some degree of shine
in his own lifetime the true reason why
he managed to attain the longevity he
did was all due to his disciples how far
my Christianity have gone without
Matthew Mark Luke and John and the
Apostles same with Confucianism
yeah later on there are certain works
that are attributed to Confucius but he
personally didn't leave any books behind
it said Confucius played some
role in editing and compiling many of
the canonical texts that became known as
the 13 Confucian classics the sure San
Jing he's also credited with producing
the 10 wings or commentaries to the Joey
the changes of Joe again that's all for
next episode but honestly everything we
have that managed to make it to the
modern age were the teachings and
quotations of Confucius as remembered
and written down by disciples and others
who followed the great sage a century or
even centuries later
Confucius did not dwell so much on a
person's innate nature are you born good
or born bad Munsell said good shinza
said Knapp so but Konza he didn't make
this such a big issue he was a big
picture person I guess he could say
without getting lost in all the quotes
that I extracted from the four books and
the Lord knew in particular let me try
to encapsulate what Confucius was all
about what was of importance to him how
did he look at things if you love
metaphysics Konza isn't your philosopher
he was concerned only with human affairs
and his passion was taking his thought
and applying it to the government
leadership operation and administration
his focus was on matters like how
everyone in society should conduct
themselves at home in public and in
certain other situations etiquette was
everything of the thirteen Confucian
classics three deal only with this
subject the rights of Jo ceremonies and
rites and the book of Rights the Jolie
Yi Li and Li Jie Confucius believed all
these ancient rites that had been
ignored or done half-heartedly for so
many years they had to be done right all
of these rights ancestor worship
included had to be done with all
seriousness you have to really show up
and be in the moment that's why things
had turned to you know what rulers and
top officials demonstrated the worst
regard for morality and ethics and
setting an example for their subjects so
it was no wonder
character of the law Beijing the people
had also degraded if you would ask
Confucius what kind of a teacher he was
he'd tell you he didn't teach anything
all he did was reintroduced the wisdom
and examples and the dull of the ancient
sage rulers and Confucius pointed to
them now most of all as we saw last
episode and he said these people were
worth emulating especially in these dark
times in the late spring and autumn
period and the reason for lack of peace
throughout the land was because everyone
the rulers most of all had strayed too
far from the perfect example set by Yao
comesit looked at the family as the
National social system of China
everything as I said began with the
ruler who sets the moral example to his
subjects morality duh so central to
Confucian thought the rulers duh in the
Confucian way of thinking rubbed off on
the people and the people seeing the
moral example of their ruler past this
decency this idea of the on to the
younger generations we translate as
morality but it goes way beyond that
it's morality and more Confucius said
quote one who rules by moral force may
be compared to the North Star
it occupies its place and all stars pay
homage to it end quote
it was totally up to the family and no
one else to teach their children and get
this generation involved in perpetuating
these old traditions these rituals
orally this was the mechanism that
United the state the people in heaven
all inclusively everyone was in it
together this idea will be advanced in
leaps and bounds over the centuries that
followed it was up to the family most
importantly perhaps to pass on to the
next generation knowing how to carry out
and participate in all these traditional
ceremonies and rituals and knowing your
place and your role inside the family
and outside the family I'm sure many of
you are familiar with the five bonds the
water
this was one of the hallmarks of
Confucianism in order of importance
these five relationships were between
ruler to the ruled father to son husband
to wife elder brother - younger brother
and friend to friend he could say this
kind of thinking had some staying power
lasting into modern times especially
with the last four of the five mobility
in those BCE days social or otherwise
was limited people stayed where they
were these knights-errant or will Chou
Wanderers I mentioned in part one they
were a tiny fraction of the population
generally speaking back then there was
none of this leaving the village to go
work in a coastal city the civil service
exams hadn't been invented yet nobody
went anywhere and it was within this
context that Konza and all of these
early philosophers produce their thought
these philosophers were very much
products of their times as a remedy to
all these 5th century BCE ills Konza
taught the five constants and the four
virtues these qualities were the essence
of what constituted the Jun Ren or the
perfect person Confucius said that of
the five constants the two that mattered
most were Ren and E benevolence and
righteousness rounding out the list were
li etiquette sure knowledge and shima
integrity the four virtues were loyalty
filial piety self-control and for the
second time righteousness do the right
thing being righteous that was both a
constant and a virtue you know I
couldn't help but recall from my youth
highlights magazine they had this comic
strip back then called goofus and
gallant two brothers you can guess which
one was the good one and which one was
the Nair do well it was written in a way
that said you know goofus does it this
way and gallon does it that way now
Confucius in the Analects had so many
stories that illustrated the difference
between what he called the Shaolin the
small person
or lower person compared with that of
the Junsu the gentleman or higher person
you know stuff like what the higher man
seeks in himself the lower man seeks in
others I mentioned this last episode
many centuries before Jesus or Hillel
hug a doll
combs Allah had this exchange between
himself and his disciples a comb who
asked quote is there one word with which
to act in accordance throughout a
lifetime the master said is not
reciprocity such a word what you do not
want done to yourself do not do to
others end quote and furthermore
Confucius said when performing what
rabbi Hillel might have called a mitzvah
Confucius said do the good deed for the
sake of doing it as a natural reaction
out of the true goodness of your heart
if you do someone a solid for the sake
of some hidden agenda or to acquire
future favors or gains of some sort
that's what a showering a small person
does
that's worse than not doing the deed at
all the ginsa the gentleman was the
opposite of the Sheldon in every way
time and again throughout the writings
of combs a-- he spoke about these jINSA
the two chinese character jinn and
literally translate to princes son I
already mentioned how pleco defined
Junsu the Jin's ax or Chinese gentleman
had it all in one single package
contained in his physical and spiritual
person was someone who always knew how
to act appropriately in every situation
someone who had all the virtues and
traits one needed to properly follow the
doll not the doll was dull the Confucian
dull the Confucian way of how a human
ought to live their lives and conduct
themselves has taught to posterity by
the sages of old the acts of Ajinca are
repeatedly discussed in the Confucian
Analects he held them up as the ethical
nobility as I said they need not come
from the upper classes in
this world that Confucius lived what
mattered was your deportment example
after example is given about how a jINSA
acts and does things and how a chance'
thinks and it's always the Shorin the
small person who was held up as the
gentleman's shameful opposite Ajinca
understands what is moral the small man
understands what is profitable Confucius
says the Junsu as opposed to the small
person had the following traits one in
regard to the use of their eyes they are
anxious to see clearly - in regard to
their countenance they are anxious that
it should be benign 3 in regard to their
demeanor they are anxious that it should
be respectful for in regard to their
speech they are anxious that it should
be sincere 5 in regard to their doing
business they are anxious that it should
be done reverently careful 6 in regard
to what they doubt they are anxious to
question others 7 when they are angry
they think of the difficulties their
anger may involve them in 8 when they
see gain to be made they think of
righteousness now can you imagine a
world where everyone thought this way
the way that Confucius called for an
orderly society with a number of social
classes where everyone knew their place
and nobody rocked the boat it was
probably a good idea at the time
considering the violence and random
chaos of the times it was natural to
hope for solutions that offered first
and foremost a cessation of violence and
something that promoted tranquillity
even in today's most violent and
unstable regions of the world some
people are willing to lower the bar as
far as their personal hopes and
aspirations for the sake of peace and a
cessation of violence let me give you
some quotes from the Lanoue this is
known in the english-speaking world as
the Analects of Confucius basically it's
a collection of sayings that are
attributed to combs ooh it's believed
that they were conversations Konza had
with his disciples and that not long
after the passing of a great sage they
were written down so we can believe if
we choose to that if these aren't the
actual words of Konza they at least
contain the spirit of what he taught now
not all but most of the Chinese classics
that we can find today were written in
the Han Dynasty the original texts have
all either been lost or destroyed in the
final form that most of these classics
took in the Han Dynasty don't match up
exactly to the Zhuo dynasty versions
here's some of Combs's greatest hits
some of them may be familiar to you
respect yourself and others will respect
you to be wealthy and honored in an
unjust society is a disgrace fine words
and an ingratiating demeanor are seldom
associated with true virtue when the
wind blows the grass bends now here
Confucius means if the ruler is virtuous
and benevolent
he's like the wind and his force will
naturally impact the people who are in
this instance the grass lead the people
with administrative injunctions and put
them in their place with penal law and
they will avoid punishments but will be
without a sense of shame lead them with
excellence and put them in their place
through roles and ritual practices and
in addition to developing a sense of
shame they will order themselves
harmoniously if names be not correct
language is not in accordance with the
truth of things if language be not in
accordance with the truth of things
affairs cannot be carried on to success
when Affairs cannot be carried on to
success proprieties and music do not
flourish this was another one of Combs's
passion the Ming or name of something
was extremely important the nobler type
of man is broad-minded and not
prejudiced the inferior man is
prejudiced and not broad-minded when we
see men of Worth we should think of
equaling them when we see men of
contrary character we should turn
inwards and examine ourselves
you know you could download the learning
you for nothing I keep it in a folder in
a Dropbox next to my PDF of Boswell's
life of Johnson I wanted to interject a
quick word about the Jesuits and their
role in bringing Chinese philosophy to
the West they learned early on about the
nine classics that would later be called
the SU shoe and the wool ching the four
books and the five classics and the
Jesuits learned early in their Intel
gathering mission late 16th early 17th
centuries that these books like the
Bible were ancient and very sacred texts
and they poured all their industry
scholarship religious devotion and
intelligence into trying to translate
them and figure these classics out
matteo ricci got the translation process
going and later in 1687 Jesuits Prospero
in torch Atta together with Philip who
play published the life and works of
Confucius in Latin and this Latin
version acted like a rosetta stone that
allowed for further translations of
Confucian and Taoist classics to be made
into all the major languages of Europe
and good timing to this all got rolling
right on the eve of the Age of
Enlightenment all of those philosophic
and literary greats of that age in
Europe read and were familiar with
Confucius through this work by inter
Chetta and ku play thanks to the work of
the Jesuits during the 18th century
European intellectuals got to feast on
Chinese culture for the first time and
comb food sue Confucius he was an
instant hit there were others besides
konso walking the streets of China
during this age of 100 schools one of
the more amusing ones were these
so-called Sophists sophistry by
definition is the use of fallacious
arguments made with the intention of
deceiving someone language and writing
had come far enough by the time of combs
ax that other clever thinkers emerged
who were
Wizards at taking words and twisting
their meaning and applying arguments
that solve nothing and confounded
everyone this group of philosophers of
which there were many later on
we're classified in the Han Dynasty as
school of names the Ming JA paradoxical
conclusions were there stock-in-trade
the most famous early example of these
Sophists would have been thumb XI
China's first lawyer he's called that
but that's not documented so far as I
know he's also credited with being
China's founding father of logic he
lived from more or less 545 - 501 BCE
which would make him contemporary with
Confucius back then he had people like
dung XI who for a fee defended clients
and matters of civil dispute he was a
minor official in the state of Jeong in
modern-day Clinton on the draw drawn
points out that his claim to fame was a
liberal penal code that he came out with
dung xi and these others who followed
him always figured out ways to win for
their clients in these many civil
disputes in dung cheese day as an hour
day as well these lawyers advocates or
whatever you want to call them came up
with all kinds of clever ways to well
ignore the spirit of the law and focus
only instead on the names and
actualities which could be picked apart
and debated from a number of angles in
his day thumb she was not regarded
highly and was considered a troublemaker
one day he'd argue for one thing and the
next day he'd take a contrary in
position for another client arguing both
sides of the law his cleverness later on
put him on the wrong side of Duke Shen
of Jung who ruled 513 a 501 BCE and the
Duquette dung she executed a nice
illustration of tunxi at his best might
be this signature story that comes to us
straight from the Lee shirt win show mr.
Lee's spring and autumn annals it goes
like this
somebody was sailing their boat making
their way down the way river
when they came upon a man floating
facedown in the water
the captain of the boat went and fished
the body out of the water
inquiries were made and the one who
found the body learned the family of the
drowned man had quite a lot of money so
he asked for an exorbitant amount as a
reward before he agreed to turn over the
body the grieving family at once sought
out tunxi for advice and the philosopher
told them don't worry the price will
come down he can only sell the body to
you who else is gonna want it and then
wouldn't you know it the same day later
on the man in possession of the
unfortunate drowned victim also sought
out dong Shi for advice on how to handle
the situation and thumbs she told them
there's no need to negotiate hold your
price you're the only one he could
recover the body from to get the picture
stuff like this dongs she and his ilk
they were just one of so many thinkers
who exploded onto the scene in China
mostly between the 6th to the 3rd
centuries BCE
Confucius did not like these guys from
the Ming gia the school of names I
already mentioned the story when he
sentenced a man to death once for
pulling these kind of stunts
manipulating words to incite the masses
well as we'll see later on
Confucianism all sounds nice and ideal
but not everyone thought that way and as
we perhaps noticed in previous CHP
episodes the Confucian astad stiff
competition with others who tried to
muscle their way into the pavilions of
power the Daoists and the buddhists most
famously the great sage certainly got a
heck of a drubbing during the Cultural
Revolution and starting in 1973
comesit got his very own campaign P lean
P Cong criticized Confucius criticized
Lin Yao that lasted three years and
starting in 2004 Combs a-- has acted as
the inspiration and shining symbol of
the Confucius Institutes spread out
around the world promoting the teaching
of Chinese language and culture and
Confucius also serves as
one of the internationally recognized
iconic symbols of Chinese culture
although it's called one of China's
three religions Confucianism is not a
religion and has no deity it's an
entirely secular ideology it's nothing
like a religion in the sense of say
Christianity well beginning in the Han a
comesit was held up by some as a Godhead
type figure but it wasn't like in the
judeo-christian sense in the Shang
Dynasty the deity was known as zhong d
this was later replaced in the Zhuo with
the idea of ten or heaven being the
supreme deity who was a moral force and
dependent on humans to manifest its will
as I mentioned a bit ago from
Confucianism developed this Chinese
tradition of scholarship and love of
learning and later on after the Han
Dynasty is established learning will
become an entire industry that provided
a conduit for people to better
themselves and exercise that innate
desire to achieve no greater glory could
come to a common villager than to see
their son pass the civil service exams
and attain a rank and officialdom
Confucian learning became the greatest
chance one had to go somewhere in life
not in Confucius is lifetime that is but
later on but the entire Confucian system
and ethic had this built-in mechanism
that kept women locked out of the whole
system and for this reason we can only
speculate how much greatness and
achievement was lost throughout the ages
by only providing a path to success for
you know 50 percent of the gene pool and
many 19th and 20th century Chinese
writers thinkers and statesmen with
later point to Confucianism as the
guilty culprit for holding the nation
back all these centuries the
conservative ideology was accused of
being too restricting to inward looking
it totally looked down at humankind's
spirit of adventure the ultimate goal
seemed to be the never-ending quest for
a kind of
walled garden were all outside
influences were kept where they belonged
on the outside this was certainly true
in the case of the decades following the
Industrial Revolution in Europe and
after the foreigners came in droves
during the 19th century and ran
roughshod over Chinese institutions and
sensibilities a lot of intellectuals
pointed at Confucius and said yeah if it
wasn't for him we wouldn't be in this
situation you know when you read all of
these Confucian philosophers mung
sessions and most notably you could see
all master Kong called for besides
reciprocity do one to others as you
would have them do unto you
his main message was really just human
decency and he gave plenty of examples
about what he meant and asked for rulers
what was so bad about rulers who were
upright moral and who engaged
deliberately and with great sincerity
all the ceremonies of state and setting
an example for the people under their
rule Combs's said find that person put
him on the throne and follow him and
because Konza showed six examples of
such people from yow to jokin no one
could say such a ruler didn't exist and
remember from last episode the word
Confucianism it's a Western term in
Chinese Confucianism is called Rukia
room in scholar the school of thought
encompasses more than just Confucius
it also included all the commentaries
everybody made who followed Master Cohn
this is all grouped under the Rukia or
roof school umbrella and as we'll see in
a later episode with the passing of
Confucius in 479 BCE China will
percolate on a high setting for two
hundred and fifty eight years before Qin
Shihuang vanquishes the last of the
warring States and establishes China's
first imperial dynasty that Sheen we'll
look at those two and a half centuries
in part four and track the progress of
Confucian thought has his disciples
start to spin their magic we'll also
examine the impact the first xin Emperor
add on Confucianism and everything else
who wasn't related to the state ideology
of legalism we'll look at that too so
much more to go for our next part of
this history of Chinese philosophy
overview I am going to take that old
eaching episode CHP 97 and freshen it up
a little and you know do like a
director's cut with some new added
material that's coming next and then
we'll move on to months of auditions
then see what happens to Chinese
philosophy in the Qin and Han dynasties
until that time is I me this is once
again Lhasa Montgomery the proprietor of
this fine establishment you won't want
to miss next week's episode on the eat
Jing I promise you thanks for listening
everyone if fortune smiles on this
humble production I'll see you next time
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast
you